# XML Dataset
The XML100 set of instances contains all the 100-customer instances from:

Queiroga, E., Sadykov, R., Uchoa, E., & Vidal, T. (2022).
10,000 optimal CVRP solutions for testing machine learning based heuristics. AAAI’22 Workshop on Machine Learning for Operations Research.
https://openreview.net/pdf?id=yHiMXKN6nTl

The purpose of these instances is to help train ML models for vehicle routing on a more diverse and representative distribution of instances.
The instances are also complemented with their Python generation code, permitting the generation of additional instances if necessary.
It is particularly important to note that all the optimal solutions are provided along with these instances.

The instance name format is XML100_ABCD_EF, such that ABCD identifies the group as follows:
- A: Depot positioning (1. random, 2. centered, 3. cornered)
- B: Customer positioning (1. random, 2. clustered, 3. random-clustered)
- C: Demand distribution (1. unitary, 2. small values with large CV, 3. small values with small CV, 4. large values with large CV, 5. large values with small CV, 6. depending on quadrant, 7. many small values and few large values)
- D: Average route size (1. very short, 2. short, 3. medium, 4. long, 5. very long, 6. ultra long)
- EF identifies the instance inside the group ABCD.

For example, instance XML100_2216_01 is the first instance of the group with centered depot, clustered customers, unitary demands, and ultra long routes. There are 378 groups generated by the Cartesian product of {1,2,3}x{1,2,3}x{1,2,3,4,5,6,7}x{1,2,3,4,5,6} (possible values to ABCD), where the first 172 groups have 27 instances, whereas the other 206 groups have 26 instances.

All the solutions were proven to be optimal. The vast majority of these optimal solutions were found by VRPSolver (Pessoa et al., 2020; [vrpsolver.math.u-bordeaux.fr](https://vrpsolver.math.u-bordeaux.fr/)), sometimes using customized parameterizations. Eighteen instances could only be solved using special branching rules, and seventeen instances were solved using a branch-and-cut algorithm, as in Lysgaard et al. (2004) and Subramanian et al. (2011).  Both VRPSolver and BC approaches take advantage of very good initial solutions provided by HGS-CVRP (Vidal, 2022; [github.com/vidalt/HGS-CVRP](https://github.com/vidalt/HGS-CVRP)). 

A Python script <generate.py> is available to produce new XML100-like instances.
For example, 'python generate.py 200 2 1 4 5 1 0' produces XML200_2145_01.vrp (call "python generator.py" to understand the arguments).

The script genXML100.sh produces the original XML100 instances if run with Python 2.7.
Running with other Python versions may produce different instances.
